PRODUCTION.md, before:

# Production Configuration

Step-by-step instructions for setting up the site on a VPS.

## Create Linux User Accounts for the Admin and Web App Users

1. Add the user account with a strong password:

   `sudo adduser kyle`

2. If appropriate, give the user sudo access (only if needed).

   `sudo adduser kyle sudo`

3. Switch to the new user:

   `sudo su kyle`

4. Create new public and private SSH keys for the user:

   `ssh-keygen -t rsa`

5. Create other files for SSH:

   `touch ~/.ssh/authorized_keys`

   `touch ~/.ssh/known_hosts`

   `touch ~/.ssh/config`

6. (On local machine) Find and copy your SSH public key:

   `cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`

7. Back on the server, open authorized_keys and paste in your public
   key:

   `vim ~/.ssh/authorized_keys`

8. (If not done already), set the server to only allow key-based authentication.
   Open `sshd_config`:

   `sudo vim /etc/ssh/sshd_config`

8. Add the following line and save the file:

   `PasswordAuthentication no`

9. Restart the SSH service to apply the change:

   `sudo service ssh restart`

10. (On local machine) Test that key based authentication works.

    `ssh kyle@servername`

11. Repeat the steps any other admin users and for the web app user
    `panzerdragoonlegacy` which we will use to run the app.

## Enable the Firewall

1. Check that OpenSSH is in the ufw list:

   `sudo ufw app list`

2. Ensure that we can log in via SSH after the Firewall is enabled:

   `sudo ufw allow OpenSSH`

3. Enable to Firewall

   `sudo ufw enable`

4. Check that SSH connections are allowed:

   `sudo ufw status`

## Setup Docker

1. Update the existing list of packages:

   `sudo apt update`

2. Install some prerequisite packages which let apt use packages over HTTPS:

   `sudo apt install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl software-properties-common`

3. Add the GPG key for the official Docker repository to the server:

   `curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -`

4. Add the Docker repository to APT sources:

   `sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu bionic stable"`

5. Update the package database with the Docker packages from the newly added repo:

   `sudo apt update`

6. Check that you are about to install from the Docker repo (instead of the default Ubuntu repo):

   `apt-cache policy docker-ce`

7. Install Docker:

   `sudo apt install docker-ce`

8. Check that Docker is running:

   `sudo systemctl status docker`

9. To run the docker command without typing sudo, add your username to the docker group (log out and in again to apply this):

   `sudo usermod -aG docker kyle`

## Setup Docker Compose

1. Install Docker Compose (update the release number to use the latest on GitHub):

   `sudo curl -L https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.26.0/docker-compose-`uname -s`-`uname -m` -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose`

2. Apply executable permissions to the binary:

   `sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose`

3. Verify the installation:

   `docker-compose --version`

## Install the CMS Docker Image

1. Clone the git repo and change into the cloned directory:

   `cd /home/panzerdragoonlegacy`

   `git clone https://github.com/panzerdragoonlegacy/cms.git`

   `cd cms`

   `pwd` (should show `/home/panzerdragoonlegacy/cms`)

2. Copy .env based on .example.env

   `cp .example.env .env`

3. Edit the .env to include the database and mail details.

   `sudo nano .env`

   ```
   RAILS_ENV=production

   DB_USER=panzerdragoonlegacy
   POSTGRES_PASSWORD=PASSWORDHERE
   DB_NAME=panzerdragoonlegacy
   DB_HOST=database

   SECRET_KEY_BASE=abcd1234

   SMTP_ADDRESS=smtp.mailgun.org
   SMTP_PORT=587
   SMTP_USER_NAME=postmaster@mg.panzerdragoonlegacy.com
   SMTP_PASSWORD=PASSWORDHERE
   ```

4. Start the docker container:

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d`

5. Go to https://www.panzerdragoonlegacy.com in your web browser and verify it.

## Restore a Database Backup into Docker Volume

1. Stop the app and start the database container only.

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml stop`

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml start database`

1. Open psql in an interactive terminal.

   `sudo docker exec -it database psql -U postgres`

2. Create a user for the webapp that matches what is in the backup:

   `CREATE USER panzerdragoonlegacy WITH ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'PASSWORDHERE';`

3. Create a database (drop old database first if required):

   `DROP DATABASE panzerdragoonlegacy;` (if required)

   `CREATE DATABASE panzerdragoonlegacy;`

4. Give the user you created full access to the database:

   `GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE panzerdragoonlegacy TO panzerdragoonlegacy;`

5. Set the owner of the database to the user:

   `ALTER DATABASE panzerdragoonlegacy OWNER TO panzerdragoonlegacy;`

6. Quit postgres:

   `\q`

7. Restore the database from a backup.sql file:

   `cat ~/backup.sql | sudo docker exec -i database psql -U panzerdragoonlegacy`

8. Restart the containers

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml down`

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d`

9. Run any outstanding migrations on the restored database

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml exec app bin/rake db:migrate`

## Restore Paperclip Attachments into Docker Volume

1. Copy the system folder from outside of the container into the volume:

   `sudo docker cp ~/system app:cms/public/system`

2. Restart the app

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml down`

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d`

3. Check that the system directory contains the files

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml exec app bash`

   `cd /cms/public/system & ls -la`

## Copying the Site's Data From Another Server

1. On the old server, log in as the web app user:

   `sudo su thewilloftheancients`

2. Get the password for the database from `database.yml`:

   `cat ~/thewilloftheancients/shared/config/database.yml`

3. Create a dump of the database as a tar file, pasting in the password from
   `database.yml` when prompted:

   `pg_dump thewilloftheancients > backup.sql`

4. On the new server, log in as the web app user:

   `sudo su panzerdragoonlegacy`

5. Get the web app user's public key:

   `cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`

6. Back on the old server, paste the new web app user's public key into the
   `authorized_keys` file of the old web app user:

   `vim ~/.ssh/authorized_keys`

7. On the new server, copy the data files in the `system` directory from the
   old server. These must be copied at the same time as the database so that
   the record IDs remain in sync:

   `scp -r kyle@1.2.3.4:~/thewilloftheancients/shared/public/system/* ~/system`

8. On the new server, copy the database dump from the old server to the home
   directory of the webapp user on the new server:

   `scp thewilloftheancients@1.2.3.4:backup.sql ~`

Commit message:

Add setup instructions for Cron job

PRODUCTION.md, after:

# Production Configuration

Step-by-step instructions for setting up the site on a VPS.

## Create Linux User Accounts for the Admin and Web App Users

1. Add the user account with a strong password:

   `sudo adduser kyle`

2. If appropriate, give the user sudo access (only if needed).

   `sudo adduser kyle sudo`

3. Switch to the new user:

   `sudo su kyle`

4. Create new public and private SSH keys for the user:

   `ssh-keygen -t rsa`

5. Create other files for SSH:

   `touch ~/.ssh/authorized_keys`

   `touch ~/.ssh/known_hosts`

   `touch ~/.ssh/config`

6. (On local machine) Find and copy your SSH public key:

   `cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`

7. Back on the server, open authorized_keys and paste in your public
   key:

   `vim ~/.ssh/authorized_keys`

8. (If not done already), set the server to only allow key-based authentication.
   Open `sshd_config`:

   `sudo vim /etc/ssh/sshd_config`

8. Add the following line and save the file:

   `PasswordAuthentication no`

9. Restart the SSH service to apply the change:

   `sudo service ssh restart`

10. (On local machine) Test that key based authentication works.

    `ssh kyle@servername`

11. Repeat the steps any other admin users and for the web app user
    `panzerdragoonlegacy` which we will use to run the app.

## Enable the Firewall

1. Check that OpenSSH is in the ufw list:

   `sudo ufw app list`

2. Ensure that we can log in via SSH after the Firewall is enabled:

   `sudo ufw allow OpenSSH`

3. Enable to Firewall

   `sudo ufw enable`

4. Check that SSH connections are allowed:

   `sudo ufw status`

## Setup Docker

1. Update the existing list of packages:

   `sudo apt update`

2. Install some prerequisite packages which let apt use packages over HTTPS:

   `sudo apt install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl software-properties-common`

3. Add the GPG key for the official Docker repository to the server:

   `curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -`

4. Add the Docker repository to APT sources:

   `sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu bionic stable"`

5. Update the package database with the Docker packages from the newly added repo:

   `sudo apt update`

6. Check that you are about to install from the Docker repo (instead of the default Ubuntu repo):

   `apt-cache policy docker-ce`

7. Install Docker:

   `sudo apt install docker-ce`

8. Check that Docker is running:

   `sudo systemctl status docker`

9. To run the docker command without typing sudo, add your username to the docker group (log out and in again to apply this):

   `sudo usermod -aG docker kyle`

## Setup Docker Compose

1. Install Docker Compose (update the release number to use the latest on GitHub):

   `sudo curl -L https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.26.0/docker-compose-`uname -s`-`uname -m` -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose`

2. Apply executable permissions to the binary:

   `sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose`

3. Verify the installation:

   `docker-compose --version`

## Install the CMS Docker Image

1. Clone the git repo and change into the cloned directory:

   `cd /home/panzerdragoonlegacy`

   `git clone https://github.com/panzerdragoonlegacy/cms.git`

   `cd cms`

   `pwd` (should show `/home/panzerdragoonlegacy/cms`)

2. Copy .env based on .example.env

   `cp .example.env .env`

3. Edit the .env to include the database and mail details.

   `sudo nano .env`

   ```
   RAILS_ENV=production

   DB_USER=panzerdragoonlegacy
   POSTGRES_PASSWORD=PASSWORDHERE
   DB_NAME=panzerdragoonlegacy
   DB_HOST=database

   SECRET_KEY_BASE=abcd1234

   SMTP_ADDRESS=smtp.mailgun.org
   SMTP_PORT=587
   SMTP_USER_NAME=postmaster@mg.panzerdragoonlegacy.com
   SMTP_PASSWORD=PASSWORDHERE
   ```

4. Start the docker container:

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d`

5. Go to https://www.panzerdragoonlegacy.com in your web browser and verify.

## Restore a Database Backup into Docker Volume

1. Stop the app and start the database container only.

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml stop`

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml start database`

1. Open psql in an interactive terminal.

   `sudo docker exec -it database psql -U postgres`

2. Create a user for the webapp that matches what is in the backup:

   `CREATE USER panzerdragoonlegacy WITH ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'PASSWORDHERE';`

3. Create a database (drop old database first if required):

   `DROP DATABASE panzerdragoonlegacy;` (if required)

   `CREATE DATABASE panzerdragoonlegacy;`

4. Give the user you created full access to the database:

   `GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE panzerdragoonlegacy TO panzerdragoonlegacy;`

5. Set the owner of the database to the user:

   `ALTER DATABASE panzerdragoonlegacy OWNER TO panzerdragoonlegacy;`

6. Quit postgres:

   `\q`

7. Restore the database from a backup.sql file:

   `cat ~/backup.sql | sudo docker exec -i database psql -U panzerdragoonlegacy`

8. Restart the containers

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml down`

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d`

9. Run any outstanding migrations on the restored database

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml exec app bin/rake db:migrate`

## Restore Paperclip Attachments into Docker Volume

1. Copy the system folder from outside of the container into the volume:

   `sudo docker cp ~/system app:cms/public/system`

2. Restart the app

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml down`

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d`

3. Check that the system directory contains the files

   `sudo docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml exec app bash`

   `cd /cms/public/system & ls -la`

## Add a Cron Job to call the SSL Certificate Renewal Script

1. Open the crontab

   `sudo crontab -e`

2. Add the following line to call the script every 5 minutes:

   `*/5 * * * * /home/panzerdragoonlegacy/cms/ssl_renew.sh >> /var/log/cron.log 2>&1`

3. After 5 minutes, check the cron log to see if it succeeded.

   `tail -f /var/log/cron.log`

4. Change the cron job to run every day at noon:

	`0 12 * * * /home/panzerdragoonlegacy/cms/ssl_renew.sh >> /var/log/cron.log 2>&1`

## Copying the Site's Data From Another Server

1. On the old server, log in as the web app user:

   `sudo su thewilloftheancients`

2. Get the password for the database from `database.yml`:

   `cat ~/thewilloftheancients/shared/config/database.yml`

3. Create a dump of the database as a tar file, pasting in the password from
   `database.yml` when prompted:

   `pg_dump thewilloftheancients > backup.sql`

4. On the new server, log in as the web app user:

   `sudo su panzerdragoonlegacy`

5. Get the web app user's public key:

   `cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`

6. Back on the old server, paste the new web app user's public key into the
   `authorized_keys` file of the old web app user:

   `vim ~/.ssh/authorized_keys`

7. On the new server, copy the data files in the `system` directory from the
   old server. These must be copied at the same time as the database so that
   the record IDs remain in sync:

   `scp -r kyle@1.2.3.4:~/thewilloftheancients/shared/public/system/* ~/system`

8. On the new server, copy the database dump from the old server to the home
   directory of the webapp user on the new server:

   `scp thewilloftheancients@1.2.3.4:backup.sql ~`
